[Teams] Google Workspace Tutorial (#2235)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/cloudflare-one/src/content/tutorials/google-workspace-saas.md

---
updated: 2021-04-27
category: 🔐 Zero Trust
pcx-content-type: tutorial
---

# Configure a Google Workspace account for Access for SaaS

This tutorial covers how to use Cloudflare as a single sign on provider by setting up Access for SaaS.

**⏲️ Time to complete:** 15 minutes

1. In your Google Workspace account, create an SSO third-party identity provider.

    ![SSO profile on Google Workspace](../static/zero-trust-security/google-workspace-saas/sso-profile.png)

1. Check the **Setup SSO with a third party identity provider** option.

> 1. On the Teams Dashboard, navigate to **Access** > **Applications** and create a SaaS application.

Reviewer: This isn't really in your Workspace account. Not sure if we should split it out?

---
updated: 2021-09-07
category: 🔐 Zero Trust
pcx-content-type: tutorial
---

# Configure a Google Workspace account for Access for SaaS

This tutorial covers how to use Cloudflare as a single sign on provider by setting up Access for SaaS.

**⏲️ Time to complete:** 15 minutes

## Create an SSO provider in Google Workspace

1. In your Google Workspace account, create an SSO third-party identity provider.

    ![SSO profile on Google Workspace](../static/zero-trust-security/google-workspace-saas/sso-profile.png)

> 1. Check the **Setup SSO with a third party identity provider** option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Setup SSO with a third party identity provider**.
```

## Create an application on the Teams Dashboard

1. On the Teams Dashboard, navigate to **Access** > **Applications** and create a SaaS application.
1. Follow [this guide](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6349809?hl=en&ref_topic=7556907) to collect the Entity ID and Assertion Consumer Service URL to add to your application:
    * Entity ID: `google.com`
    * Assertion Consumer Service URL: `https://google.com/a/your_domain.com/acs`
    * Name ID: `Email`

    ![Add fields to Teams application](../static/zero-trust-security/google-workspace-saas/teams-app-fields.png)

1. Click **Next** to create an Access policy and use the following mapping to set up your Workspace sign-in:

    | Google Workspace value | Cloudflare value |
    | ----- | ---- |
    | Sign-in page URL | SSO Endpoint |
    | Sign-out page URL | SSO Endpoint |
    | Verification Certificate | Public Key |

> 1. Next, you can choose to check **Use a domain specific issuer**. If you check this option, Google will send an issuer specific to your domain (where `your_domain.com` is replaced with your actual primary Google Workspace domain name).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Next, you can select **Use a domain specific issuer**. If you select this option, Google will send an issuer specific to your domain (where `your_domain.com` is replaced with your actual primary Google Workspace domain name).
```

## Create and upload a certificate file

1. Paste the **Public Key** in VIM or another code editor.
1. Wrap the certificate in `-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----` and `-----END CERTIFICATE-----`.
1. Set the file extension as `.crt` and save.

Once the certificate file has been created, upload it to your Google Workspace account.

## Test the integration

You can now test the integration by going to `https://google.com/a/<yourdomain>`.

## Troubleshooting

`Error: “G Suite - This account cannot be accessed because the login credentials could not be verified.”`

> If you see this error, it is likely that the Public Key and Private Key do not match. Double-check that your certificate file matches your Public Key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you see this error, it is likely that the Public Key and Private Key do not match. Confirm your certificate file matches your Public Key.
```
